---
layout: post
title:  "Prologue"
---
The story so far involes a not very good start to the year, or to be more precise a really bad end to 2022.

Just before the end of 2022 I'd managed to get through a mental ceiling of my own making.  In the past I've tried to lift 160kg on the deadlift and failed, hurting myself in the process.

On the 18th of December fitness wise I was the strongest I've been for a long time.  Just 5 days earlier I'd managed to PB my deadlift and pull 162.5kg away from the planet and stand upright at the same time.  The lift itself came out of nowhere, my physio was getting me to play around with weights to see if all the conditioning over the last few weeks had made any difference.

I deliberately haven't been taking note of what weight is on the bar but this time I knew the weight was approaching the point where I usually fail so counted up what I thought was 140kg and was quite happy as it went up with ease.  You guessed it, I'd counted wrong and the total was actually 150kg at which point my trainer said we'll put another 10kg on.

Given how easy the 150kg left the floor I suggested he also add an extra 1.25kg each side.  Needless to say 162.5kg left the floor with ease and I stood up straight hold the bar with a big grin on my face.  I'd just beat my PB and blasted through the mental barrier.

Back to the 18th there is snow and ice on the ground and we're out walking the dog.  The snow underfoot is just compacted ice, there are warning signs saying the path is closed which we totally ignore and about 700m later I'm on my back.  I got up dusted myself off and thought nothing of it until about 2 days later when my back started to hurt so my I could even sit down without being in pain.

Now we're in the new year, I'm moving about much better and in a lot less pain.  I was going to log my lifting journey this year but it looks like I'm going to be logging my recovery instead.  
